day 50
i wake up and get out of the cryochamber. my plans for today are to try to fit more plants into zone 2 (a zone filled to the brim with only 3 species of plants, I want more biodiversity) i look at the central map and see that one zone is in the yellow. i select zone 4 and it displays that more plants are sick in this zone. i add the zone to my HUD. I then move over to the bio tank and fill up completely. finally i leave the dome.

zone 1 is extremely lush, filled very thickly with trees and underbrush. to navigate through it, many days ago i built a path to speed up my traversal. as I walk over it, I notice that a few of the faux-stones are starting to degrade by nearby plants. I tear up some of the worst ones, then I harvest the plants closest to that part of the path so they won't harm the new stones I'm placing. I replace the stones to the best I can, hoping I don't spend too much biomass. Actually, after rebuilding this path I realize I probably will want more biomass so I head back to the dome. I dump the small amount of plant waste into the bio tank when I refill my biomass. Then I walk down the zone 1 path until I get into zone 4.

Zone 4 is covered mostly in a vine designed to remove salt from the environment. There are tufts of bushes and other plants sparsely placed. The first thing I notice is that there is a big patch of vines that are grey and dying. I check the page for the vines and see that they are actually fragile to a certain level of moisture. Sure enough, the moisture is now too high in this environment, a far cry from the dry salt flat it started as. I start looking for the culprits that are increasing moisture. After walking around and scanning the zone, I check the zone page and see that there are a few reeds in the zone. I don't think I planted those here? I check their page and see that they require a medium or lower level of salt and produce a BUNCH of moisture. I go find the reeds and then see that they have spread from zone 3 (the marsh). I almost go to remove them before stopping myself. I know since zone 3 is so close to zone 4 that more reeds will probably come. I also know that the purpose of the vines is to reduce the salt, and so the reeds can only come because the vines have done their job. I then go into my plantdex and look for a plant that can suck up the extra moisture the reeds are producing but can handle the salt level. I ultimately settle on the briar, which will turn that excess moisture into nitrogen. I plant a few of them scattered amongst the vines. I know the briar is strong enough to handle itself against the encroaching vines, and I hope that the briars don't actually kill too many of the vines, because then the salt level will naturally rise. Finally, to give this new arangement some breathing room, I head over to the border between zone 3 and 4. I harvest some of the reeds on the zone 3 side of the border (making sure that it won't screw up the moisture level), so that it will take a few more days before more reeds come over. The border is bigger than I'd like, however, so I consider placing some fencing to slow down the transition, but not stop it. I see that I have enough bio to build a few stretches and place them carefully between the bigger patches of reeds and zone 4. Once I'm out of bio, I wade out of zone 3 and back to my path coming out of zone 1. I briefly consider placing my next path along the zone 3/4 border as I will need a faster way to get to zone 5, and this would also help the zones not cross over so quickly and have zone 3 not just be subsumed by zone 4. As I get back in the dome, I figure that it would probably be too big of a time and bio investment right now, and I'll worry about that once its time to put more work into zone 5.

Dumping my planttrash into the bio tank, I realize I didn't do anything with zone 2. I look at my bio tank reserves and figure I'll be able to do more tomorrow anyway with the bio I got from harvesting today. I close the dome door and the nightly ritual begins. I check in on the review screen and it shows that I harvested ~100 plants and planted ~7. Apparently a few of my bots in zone 3 are going to need to be fueled tomorrow. Geva tells me that the 2nd stage of the wind turbine is nearing completion and they'll need me to put in more resources tomorrow. I've been sinking my resources into so that I won't have to keep worrying about powering my sensor, caretaker, and maintenance bots in the more open zones. Also, I know that after the wind turbine is done I can work on more energy technlogoy, so maybe I can finally get a good power source for heavily forested zones (I hate having to fill biogenerators, so I just don't ever use them lol). 

I finally head to the cryo chamber, Geva closes it, and I sleep.